---
publishDate: 'Nov 14 2022'
title: 'Documenting My AstroLearning, pt. 1'
description: 'Talking about myself; Setting up the page and assigning a Domain name to it.'

category: 'tutorials, devlog'
tags: [astro, vercel, astrowind]

---
 
### Intro and a Bit of History
 
 There isn't a better way to kickstart a personal development log as a public learning post! Since I started my career as a developer only six months ago, and I'm basically a 'baby developer' right now, I decided that would be pretty fun to document my steps on learning new things as I stumble along the way until I can walk and run, just like a toddler would do. From day one at my Web Development Bootcamp back in May/'22, I was _eager_ to have a personal website, to flex my tender and recently-formed coding muscles, ha.
 
 The main obstacle was that when I finished the course, I only had a mild comprehension of vanilla JS, HTML and CSS. I even tried to create my own personal [github.io page](https://tverderesi.github.io/), but the way I've built it required so much work to add anything to it that the page simply fell down the procrastination well, never to be seen again.
 
 Fast-forward three months, and I'm a little bit more seasoned: I'm learning React and I'm well on my way to building my first Fullstack Website (which there will be plenty to talk about in the future), so I decided retry building a personal page once more, although this time having learned my lesson and looking for a solution that would let me spend more time working content and less time working on the website itself. 
 
 When I was looking for solutions and asking recommendations, Astro got recommended to me, and it instantly caught my attention because it looked easy and pretty enough for a starting point. And sure enough, it was both of those things, but there were some kinks I had to iron out, and that's why I have decided to make this post in the first place.
 
 
### So, this Astro thing is neat and all, but how do I get one?
 
 The easiest way to get an Astro page template is to go to Astro's [website](https://astro.build/) and start from there. You could start building your page with the ['Get Started'](https://docs.astro.build/en/getting-started/) section which, to my surprise, even had a [pretty interactive](https://docs.astro.build/en/tutorial/0-introduction/) tutorial. I tried that, but the theming wasn't quite to my liking, so, before falling into another Design/Theming rabbit-hole, I decided to give the Themes a shot. I ended up picking up the [AstroWind](https://github.com/onwidget/astrowind) theme, which uses Tailwind. Creating an AstroWind clone is as easy as clicking on the big 'Use This Template' button on its github page. Then, you clone it to a repository of your own and get to work.
 
### Astro in VSCode
 
 Once I cloned your repository locally, I could start fiddling with it.[ AstroWind](https://astrowind.vercel.app)'s default template comes with three sections 'Pages', 'Resources', and 'Blog'. Whereas the former two are simply 'static' pages, the latter is where this framework _really_ starts to shine. To add a new post to my AstroWind blog, I just placed a '.md' file to the blog folder, like this:
     
     project-root
     └── data 
         └── blog
             └── my-awesome-blog-post.md
             
And it just works! This is borderline magical for me, at the moment. No tags, no formatting, nothing. Just write and upload. And I did just that, and to my surprise, what I had when I clicked on blog link was… An error. l hopped on AstroWind's Issues Github page and then I was able to solve it. So, with the error corrected, I could deploy it.

### Deploying it to Vercel

This is pretty straightforward. You can easily deploy it using the [Guide](https://docs.astro.build/en/guides/deploy/vercel/) on its page, or go directly to Vercel and import the Github repository you're using and let Vercel handle the rest. That's what I did. The neat thing is that Vercel recognizes it as an Astro project automatically, so the process went through painlessly.

### Linking a Custom Domain from Google Domains

At this point I was feeling pretty pumped about having my personal website up and running, so I decided to spend a little bit and assign a custom _.dev_ domain to it. I chose to use Google Domains for it. I thought it would be a lot pricier to have a custom domain, but it ended up costing BRL50 for a whole year. After buying the domain I then realized _I had no idea how to link it to my vercel deployment_. I panicked a little bit, but decided to Google it, and found [this awesome tutorial](https://gist.github.com/khushal87/81b7b74c4e5324b2ff29bbc51f059513) by khushal87 with a step-by-step guide to doing so.

### Ending, for now

When I started this post I thought I wouldn't have to much to talk about, but I ended up being way more talkative than I expected. It has been a while since I last wrote anything structured, so I'm pretty happy with my post length. There is a lot more I want to talk about, so expect to upload a second part pretty soon. Have a good one!
 
 
 
 
 


